README.md, before:

# STATUS ENGINE

## Description

Web app for visualizing Covid-19 data generated by [mysymptoms.mil](https://www.mysymptoms.mil).

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Ensure the following packages are installed.

- [NodeJS 10+](https://nodejs.org/en/)
- [PostgreSQL 12+](https://www.postgresql.org)

### Development

- Create a file named `.env` at project root with the following in it. You can change the `USER_EDIPI` value to any
number greater than 1 to create a new user.
```
USER_EDIPI=1
```

- Navigate to the project root and run the following.
```
npm install
./seed-dev.sh
./run-dev.sh
```

### Switching Users

The client uses certificates for login in production rather than a typical login page, which is why we use the
`USER_EDIPI` environment variable as a development workaround. To switch users, change the value of `USER_EDIPI` in
your `.env` file and restart the development server.

### Synchronizing the Database

When modifying database models, it can be useful to continuously sync the database schema during development. To do
so, add the following to your `.env` file:
```
SYNC_DATABASE=true
```

*This functionality can't be used in production, so you'll still need to remember to write migrations to deploy changes
to the schema.*

### Database Migrations

#### Running

Migrations will automatically be run on app startup, or they can be manually run with `./migration-run.sh`.

#### Generating

The recommended way to create a new migration is to run `./migration-generate.sh {name}`, where `{name}` is the name of
the migration you want to create. The generate script will automatically run migrations to make sure you're up to date,
then it will generate a new migration for you in `/server/migrations` with the necessary changes to match your current
models.

*NOTE: There's currently a known bug in TypeORM's migration generator, where it will always add unnecessary alterations
on date columns that use `default: () => 'null'`. So make sure you review the generated migration and remove any of
these unnecessary alterations before committing them (and also format the generated file to match our eslint rules).*

#### Creating

If you want to write a migration from scratch, you can create a new blank migration with `./migration-create.sh {name}`,
where `{name}` is the name of the migration you want to create. An empty template will be generated in
`/server/migrations`.

### Testing

```
npm test
```

### Notes

This project was bootstrapped with [create-react-app](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app), and uses
[rescripts](https://github.com/harrysolovay/rescripts) to customize the build configuration.

As the project requirements grow, we may need to eject from create-react-app/rescripts. However, they greatly simplify
management of the build configuration, so we should avoid ejecting if possible.

Commit message:

Add readme info for getting back to clean state. (#20)

README.md, after:

# STATUS ENGINE

## Description

Web app for visualizing Covid-19 data generated by [mysymptoms.mil](https://www.mysymptoms.mil).

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Ensure the following packages are installed.

- [NodeJS 10+](https://nodejs.org/en/)
- [PostgreSQL 12+](https://www.postgresql.org)

### Development

- Create a file named `.env` at project root with the following in it. You can change the `USER_EDIPI` value to any
number greater than 1 to create a new user.
```
USER_EDIPI=1
```

- Navigate to the project root and run the following.
```
npm install
./seed-dev.sh
./run-dev.sh
```

### Switching Users

The client uses certificates for login in production rather than a typical login page, which is why we use the
`USER_EDIPI` environment variable as a development workaround. To switch users, change the value of `USER_EDIPI` in
your `.env` file and restart the development server.

### Synchronizing the Database

When modifying database models, it can be useful to continuously sync the database schema during development. To do
so, add the following to your `.env` file:
```
SYNC_DATABASE=true
```

*This functionality can't be used in production, so you'll still need to remember to write migrations to deploy changes
to the schema.*

### Database Migrations

#### Running

Migrations will automatically be run on app startup, or they can be manually run with `./migration-run.sh`.

#### Generating

The recommended way to create a new migration is to run `./migration-generate.sh {name}`, where `{name}` is the name of
the migration you want to create. The generate script will automatically run migrations to make sure you're up to date,
then it will generate a new migration for you in `/server/migrations` with the necessary changes to match your current
models.

*NOTE: There's currently a known bug in TypeORM's migration generator, where it will always add unnecessary alterations
on date columns that use `default: () => 'null'`. So make sure you review the generated migration and remove any of
these unnecessary alterations before committing them (and also format the generated file to match our eslint rules).*

#### Creating

If you want to write a migration from scratch, you can create a new blank migration with `./migration-create.sh {name}`,
where `{name}` is the name of the migration you want to create. An empty template will be generated in
`/server/migrations`.

#### Restoring State Locally

If your local database schema falls out of sync with migrations and you want to get back to a clean state, you can 
run `./seed-dev.sh`. This will automatically recreate the database, apply the current migrations, and get the app back 
into a usable state.

### Testing

```
npm test
```

### Notes

This project was bootstrapped with [create-react-app](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app), and uses
[rescripts](https://github.com/harrysolovay/rescripts) to customize the build configuration.

As the project requirements grow, we may need to eject from create-react-app/rescripts. However, they greatly simplify
management of the build configuration, so we should avoid ejecting if possible.
